# CS225-Final-Project Results

The output of our BFS algorithm is a vector of all the incident Nodes for which the totalLoss variable falls within a given range of the search target. We tested that the algorithm works as intended in tests-part3.cpp by running findByLoss(double, double) on a sample dataset of 9 variables. We intentionally wrote the dataset with easily computible totalLoss variables. Our test cases try a variety of targets with a variety of ranges, and check if the resulting vector contains the correct incident nodes.

The output of our Prim's algorithm is the minimum spanning tree of the graph. We test that the algorithm works in tests-part1.cpp by creating a graph from the test dataset bfs_test_data.csv, and accessing each node to make sure that it was initialized correctly.

Finally, we created two functions (plotPointsOnMap and pathsOnMap) that plotted the points in a given tree onto an equirectangular projection map. The former function outputs an image of the points as well as an animation of the function plotting the points sorted by date by iterating through the set of verticies in the graph which are then plotted on a map using a simple formula. The points are colored from red to green with red meaning an area has a higher ratio of total dead to total migrants while green has a lower ratio of total dead to total migrants. The latter function plots the points on the map as well as draws lines between the points based on the graph's edgelist using Bresenham's line algorithm given two (x,y) coordinates. To check that we were accurately plotting points on the map, we inputted the geographical coordinates into https://dwtkns.com/pointplotter/ to check where they should appear on a map, and verified that those points were being plotted in the correct place in our program. We also checked to see if these points were accurate by seeing if there were no clear mistakes in plotting the map; for example, we made sure the points were not in the middle of the ocean.

Overall, our project helped us easily visualize trends across the world, which helped us come to a better understanding of how to better answer our leading question: "What patterns exist across incidents happening across the globe?" We found that there were a lot of incidents occurring along Central America and there was also a clear path from the Arab Peninsula to Europe. An abnormality in the data we saw was a large, red cluster in Southern China.